Youth Survey: Political Activism and Awareness - 2016
In March 2016, AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll, specifically targeting Palestinian youth. The survey measured and evaluated youth knowledge of modern political history, levels of civic participation, willingness to participate in future elections and general perceptions of the current circumstances. A total of 1,200 youth (between ages 18 and 25) participated in the survey, drawn from all governorates in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem. After analysis of the final results, AWRAD’s researchers authored a press release for online publication and dissemination among the media.

Women’s Participation in Public Life and Decision-Making - 2016
In June 2016, AWRAD conducted an online survey of Palestinian women. The survey was designed to measure perceptions related to women’s rights and opportunities in Palestine, women’s participation in social, economic and political activities and political preferences. A total of 365 “active” women participated in the survey, defined as those who worked in the public or private sector, are a member of a civil society organization (CSO), political party or union, are full-time students or are currently looking for work. At the conclusion of the research, AWRAD authored a press release for publication and also prepared a presentation for a roundtable discussion with leading figures in women’s empowerment.

A Study of the Impacts of the Political Division on Palestinian Women - 2017
AWRAD partnered with MIFTAH to conduct a study of how the internal Palestinian division between Fatah and Hamas has impacted the lives of women in the West Bank and Gaza. This study focuses on the political, social, economic, cultural and psychological aspects of the division, with specific emphasis devoted to the defunct Palestinian legislature and its effect on women and women’s rights. To accomplish these goals, AWRAD designed a methodology including 50 in-depth interviews, four focus groups and 3 case studies, conducted across the West Bank and Gaza. The study produced an analytical report, assessing the individual impacts of the division, including their causes and effects.

Assessment of bottlenecks in the Palestinian Ministry of Health Hospitals (PMOH) that result in referrals to Non-PMOH and measurement of appropriateness of referrals to Non-PMOH - 2016
AWRAD is currently partnered with IntraHealth to conduct an evaluation of the Palestinian Health Capacity Project (PHCP). The assessment is composed of two interlocking components: (1) a study of the bottlenecks in the healthcare sector that result in referrals and (2) a study of the appropriateness of referrals. AWRAD has designed a mixed-methods approach for both studies, drawing on in-depth interviews, database review, thematic studies and a review of strategies and project documents. Over the course of the project, AWRAD’s researchers conducted 85 interviews with leading figures in the healthcare sector, including governmental and non-governmental hospitals, the Service Purchase Department, members of Regional Referral Committees, ministries and practicing doctors. At the close of the project, AWRAD authored an analytical report, detailing the most significant findings, recommending cost containment strategies and determining a baseline finding regarding referral appropriateness.

Technical Assistance to Improve and Develop the Social Protection System in Palestine through Partnership, Planning and Institutional Capacity Building - 2015-2016
This project represents a partnership between AWRAD and the Ministry of Social Development (previously Ministry of Social Affairs), to design and assist its service delivery to vulnerable populations. The assessment entails a thorough monitoring and evaluation of MoSD service provision, in addition to non-governmental actors at the federal and local level, with the aim of determining comparative advantages. In pursuit of this goal, AWRAD and its partners have developed a series of indicators designed to evaluate impact, scope, sustainability, and other factors related to service delivery mechanisms. An essential part of this project is detailed knowledge of the concerns and circumstances of women, youth, and the disabled as it relates to service delivery. In the course of this project, and subsidiary assignments, AWRAD has authored multiple analytical reports, developed action and sustainability plans for service provision to Palestinians with disabilities, established Joint Service Planning Groups (JPGs) in three governorates, conducted a mapping of service providers, conducted workshops on social service reform and performed a series of other activities.  

Opinion Surveys for the EU Support to a Taxpayer Awareness Program in Palestine - 2015
In 2015, AWRAD partnered with the EU to assist its work with the Ministry of Finance efforts to increase tax revenue collection and improve compliance. AWRAD developed a baseline survey to measure attitudes and levels of awareness related to taxes among Palestinian citizens. Indicators were developed to measure knowledge, contact with tax authorities, evaluation of the collection system, constraints and moral. These helped to identify the factors that influence citizens and businesses in the payment of taxes, the most challenging issues surrounding tax filing and recommendations to improve the system of revenue collection. AWRAD developed five complementary surveys, distributed among large taxpayers, the next generation of taxpayers (students), NGOs, the public and professionals. A total of 1,800 questionnaires were distributed among these five groups of respondents. AWRAD authored a final report, exploring the baseline data and providing recommendations for project implementation by the EU. Endline surveys will be conducted in 2017.

Independent Endline and Final Evaluation of the Partnership for Community-Led Action for Resilience and Livelihoods (PCARL) - 2016
AWRAD partnered with Save the Children to conduct an evaluation of the PCARL program, an initiative to increase community and partner capacity in supporting vulnerable populations and strengthening resilience in 12 communities in Area C and 6 communities in the ARA zones of Gaza.  The program included activities in protection, livelihoods support and access to basic services. AWRAD evaluated the impact of PCARL activities across six domains, relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability, impact and engagement with stakeholders, collecting data through a combination of survey questionnaires, interviews and focus groups. Following data collection and analysis, AWRAD authored a final report, assessing the performance of PCARL in building resilience across the six evaluation domains, offering conclusions and lessons learned and suggesting relevant, evidence-based recommendations.

Social Survey on Aqbat Jaber Refugee Camp - 2016
AWRAD partnered with JICA to conduct a social survey of the Aqbat Jabr Refugee Camp. The goal of this survey was the development of a “core understanding,” which would help JICA in their implementation of a new technical cooperation project focused on improving public services and social cohesion. The project had four objectives: (1) examining the existing circumstances of the camp, (2) determining pressing and unmet needs, (3) identifying stakeholder groups and their circumstances and (4) identifying distinct actors and their respective roles. In pursuit of these goals, AWRAD designed a mixed-methods approach, employing 571 household survey questionnaires, 8 in-depth interviews, 3 focus group discussions, 2 stay-over visits and a comprehensive mapping. At the close of the project, AWRAD authored an analytical report, triangulating qualitative and quantitative data gleaned by the various survey tools, and providing an evidence-based foundation to guide JICA’s future interventions.

Online Poll of Local Governance Experts on the Municipal Elections - 2016
In August 2016, AWRAD conducted an online public opinion poll among experts on local governance issues. The goal of this survey was to assess expert opinions on the municipal elections, then scheduled for October, he prospects for candidates, the priorities of voters and the impact of elections on other political topics, such as reconciliation. Participants were drawn from journalists, community activists, businesspeople, university professors, medical doctor and engineers. The study was conducted from 12-18 August and included 205 experts. A press release was authored and published on AWRAD’s website, detailing the most pertinent findings and including the sample distribution and full results.

An Analytical Study of Women and Local Government - 2016
AWRAD was recently contracted to perform an analysis of the relationship between Palestinian women and local government by the PWWSD. Key issues focused on the role of women in politics, the performance of female elected officials, the relationship of women with government actors, the role of women’s movements and obstacles to greater empowerment. AWRAD designed a mixed-methods approach across the West Bank and Gaza, utilizing 14 in-depth interviews, 3 focus group discussions and 784 survey questionnaires. Data collection tools targeted prominent NGOs, CBOs and women’s organizations, government ministries, international actors (UNWOMEN), the MoLG and citizens. At the close of the project, AWRAD authored analytical report detailing the role of governmental bodies, women’s role as socio-political leaders, attitudes and behaviors of community members, the passage and application of laws and policies and recommendations to address all major findings.

Advancing Palestinian Women Entrepreneurs: Women Entrepreneurs’ Financial Inclusion in Northern Palestine Consultancy. Cherie Blair Foundation for Women - 2015
This assignment was a study designed to identify and highlight the specific barriers women entrepreneurs in Northern Palestine face in terms of accessing financial services, as well as how the 'Advancing Women Entrepreneurs’ Project could support financial institutions and create an enabling environment for women. AWRAD prepared a mixed-methods approach, including a quantitative survey of 146 women entrepreneurs who had received loans, as well as conducting 11 interviews with individuals from the financial sector and 3 focus groups, including 2 with women entrepreneurs. Together, the data collection tools measured the distinct legal, social, political and economic barriers that impede entrepreneurial work by women. A final report was authored, which detailed the most pertinent findings and offered recommendations to improve the Project.

Formative Assessment for Utilizing Innovative Media to End Violence against Women and Girls through Community Education and Outreach - 2016
In partnership with Ma’an Network and the What Works Consortium, AWRAD undertook a formative research project to assess violence against women and girls (VAWG) in Palestine and the role of the media in preventing such acts. The research was designed to support a larger intervention aiming to increase exposure of Palestinian audiences to relevant an realistic examples of the impact of VAWG, change social norms so that such behavior is less tolerated and reduce the number of women and girls exposed to violence. To accomplish this goal, AWRAD designed a research approach utilizing six focus group discussions and 20 in-depth interviews with males and females with experience of VAWG and experts in the field of social work and justice. The data collection focused on the context of VAWG in Palestine, experience and dynamics leading to different forms of VAWG, existing services and support mechanisms for survivors and the role of the media in reinforcing or dismantling a culture of VAWG. At the close of the assignment, AWRAD authored a final analytical report, which assessed the context of VAWG in Palestine, the perceptions, understanding and experiences of Palestinians, including those exposed to VAWG, and recommendations to improve media programming capable of eroding a culture that tolerates such acts. 

2014-2015 Civil Society Organization Sustainability Index: Palestine - 2016
AWRAD was contracted by USAID to author the West Bank and Gaza section for the 2015 and 2016 CSOSI Reports. The CSOSI is designed to assess the sustainability of civil society across the MENA region, measuring sustainability across seven interlocking dimensions, such as legal environment and organizational capacity. To complete the assignment, AWRAD organized a series of focus group discussions among experts on civil society, who could offer perspective and information on the major developments that impacted civil society in 2015 and 2016. The inputs of these experts were supplemented with an extensive literature review, drawing on legal documents, executive orders, mappings and reports on the civil society sector and a host of other materials. After data collection, AWRAD authored the section on the West Bank and Gaza, published as part of the larger report on the MENA region.

Impact Assessment of Nisaa FM Programs - 2016
AWRAD partnered with Nisaa FM to carry out a research assignment, assessing the popularity, impact of programming and sociopolitical perceptions of listeners. The project was completed through a mixed-methods approach, including a survey of 665 adult Palestinians across the West Bank and Gaza and four focus group discussions. Topics focused on awareness and listenership patterns, impact of programming on women, readership of the website and means of attracting new followers. The project concluded with the authoring of an analytical report, responsible for presenting the most pertinent findings and relevant recommendations based on the input of current and potential listeners.

"AWRAD is Conducting Participatory Research on Decentralization and Elections in Morocco" - 2014-2015
In coordination with a large number of national and regional organizations, AWRAD is carrying out in-depth research on the issues of expanded decentralization, regional development and elections. The research team is conducting research across the urban and rural scenes in three main regions: Marrakech-Tensift-Al Haouz; Souss-Massa-Draa; and the region surrounding Guelmim. To collect and analyze the data, AWRAD is organizing 54 focus groups and interviewing 1,200 Moroccans. The research targets all groups of society including civil society activists, political parties, youth groups, women groups, farmers, laborers, professionals and persons with disability. The research project covers a period of eight months (November 2014 – June 2015). Following the fieldwork, the results and recommendations will be presented in national and regional workshops with the participation of decision makers at all levels, including high-ranking politicians, leaders of political parties, parliamentarians, civil society leaders, journalists and regional leaders. The research is funded by the International Republican Institute (IRI) – Morocco

“M&E Consultancy for the Enhanced Palestinian Justice Project (EPJP).” - 2014 – 2018
AWRAD is contracted to implement M&E surveys of the EPJP project, which aims to strengthen the Palestinian justice sector by providing improved services and training to key stakeholders. AWRAD has completed a baseline assessment, and will conduct a midline and end line assessment across four years to measure a variety of indicators relevant to justice sector performance. To do this, AWRAD has designed a mixed-methods approach, utilizing questionnaires, interviews and focus groups, that will inform EPJP planning and strategy.

“Program Baseline and Impact Assessment and end-of-project evaluation of the School Support Program.” - 2014 – 2017
AWRAD has been contracted by AMIDEAST to perform the baseline and impact assessment and end-of-project evaluation of the interventions developed to support the 2014-2017 School Support Program. AWRAD will be working across the 14 educational directorates to evaluate AMIDEAST’s educational interventions. The objectives of these assessments are fourfold: (1) support the provision of transparent and accountable reporting on program results and outcomes, (2) evaluate the extent of SSP’s effectiveness in meeting its objectives and goals, (3) elicit successes and lessons learned to inform the design of future projects, and (4) enable a better understanding of how gender, school location, grade level and rate of community poverty impact student achievement and overall program effectiveness. The Baseline survey was completed in January 2015.

“Technical Assistance to Improve and Develop the Social Protection System in Palestine through Partnership, Planning and Institutional Capacity Building with a Focus on Decentralization of Social Services.” - 2013 – 2016
AWRAD partnered with GOPA Worldwide Consultants and the Institute of Development Studies in London (IDS) to plan, implement and assist MoSA in its service delivery to vulnerable populations. The assessment entails a thorough monitoring and evaluation of MoSA service provision, in addition to non-governmental actors on the federal and local level, with the aim of determining comparative advantages. In pursuit of this goal, AWRAD and its partners have developed a series of indicators designed to evaluate impact, scope, sustainability, and other factors related to service delivery mechanisms. An essential part of this project is detailed knowledge of the concerns and circumstances of women, youth, and the disabled as it relates to service delivery. At the end of this project, AWRAD, with its partners, will present a detailed report, derived from its mixed-methods approach, which identifies comparative advantages and provides feasible recommendations for policy and programming reform. A variety of training assignments form will be carried out during the course of this project including team building and communication skills for the project teams.

“Nationwide Surveys of the Egyptian and Tunisian Adult Populations.” - 2014-On-going
AWRAD is currently engaged in a public opinion polling project across Egypt and Tunisia intended to explore and measure the social distribution and political significance of democratic attitudes and intolerance in the region and identify the main individual-level and contextual-level factors underlying the recent Arab revolutions and their aftermath. The poll targets 1,570 individuals in each country and is representative of all demographic factors. Questions measure socioeconomic demographics, participation in events surrounding the revolutions, attitudes towards different types of political rule and practices and change over time in personal security. Once the data has been collected and analyzed, analytical reports will be published in scholarly journals.

“Regional Focus Groups: Morocco.” - 2015-Ongoing
AWRAD was recently contracted to conduct 24 focus groups in Morocco focusing on citizen perceptions and priorities related to political, economic and everyday issues. AWRAD will be responsible for developing all survey guidelines and training facilitators and transcribers for the focus groups. The groups themselves will be conducted in a mixture of urban and rural locales across three districts and target a variety of different ages. At the close of the project, AWRAD will submit transcriptions of each focus group, along with a complete dataset of all results. Most importantly, AWRAD will submit a final report documenting the most significant findings for IRI’s evaluation and incorporation into future work.

“Assessment of Local Governance Relevant Academic Programs in Relation to the Demands of the Sector.” - 2014
 “Assessment of Local Governance Relevant Academic Programs in Relation to the Demands of the Sector.”

“Evaluation of the Partnership for Peace Programme: Organization of Focus Groups.” - 2014
As part of an evaluation that Edburgh Consultants was conducting for the EU and to support the evaluation team, AWRAD organized five focus groups for 10-15 participants at various venues and dates in Palestine. AWRAD arranged venues, stationary and refreshment and meeting dates, in addition to inviting participants from the different sectors in across civil society. 

“Assessment of Public Sector Services (A Specialized Survey of Citizens’ Satisfaction and Priorities.)" - 2013-2014
AWRAD conducted an assessment of public sector services, in partnership with EGP and various Palestinian ministries. The assessment determined the factors which impact public perceptions of satisfaction of the quality of services delivered, and how these levels of satisfaction differ across different categories of service users. AWRAD identified service delivery improvement priorities across ministries and benchmarked current ministry performance against customer needs and expectations. To accomplish this goal, AWRAD prepared two surveys: a nationally representative public survey and another targeted at end users of government services which measured perceptions across 25 services across six ministries. This survey generated a Public Service Sector Satisfaction Index (PSSSI), developed from key indicators, that provides ministries and EGP with program baseline benchmarks. 

“Customer Perception Gender Surveys and Gender Strategy Development.” - 2012-2013
In partnership with the Palestinian Ministry of Transport (MoT) and Ministry of Interior (MoI) AWRAD completed the field work for a gender survey among the citizen customers of both ministries to analyze and understand gender dynamics and differences between the sexes in relation to access to and perception of key government services. The results of the surveys will be translated into strategies to be endorsed by both ministries.  AWRAD developed the gender strategy for the MoT through a highly participatory and consultative on-the-job training approach with the Ministry, developing a first comprehensive gender strategy for the Ministry using scientific data results and tools.

“Comprehensive Analysis for the United Nations Development Assistance Framework for the Occupied Palestinian Territory.” - 2012
For this assignment, AWRAD completed a Common Country Analysis (CCA) in support of the UNDAF. AWRAD identified priority development themes, challenges and gaps within the oPt, as well as highlighting the comparative advantage of the UN Country Team (UNCT) in addressing significant issues. In pursuit of these goals, AWRAD’s researchers conducted dozens of in-depth interviews with PA and UN officials, civil society representatives and the private sector to determine outstanding development priorities and the potential role of partners in addressing existing gaps.

“Libyan Perspectives on Governance: Focus Group Findings.” - 2012
In November 2012, AWRAD carried out 10 focus groups in five municipalities in Libya to support IRI’s efforts to engage youth, CSOs, and other officials in more extensive dialogue during the process of political transition in Libya. Specifically, AWRAD conducted two sets of focus groups in five municipalities in Libya to probe the opinion of the Libyan adult constituency on public policy issues and the role of government in their daily life.

“A National Study on School Teaching Practices in Palestinian Schools (Baseline and End Line).” - 2012
This project was a multi-year national study of contemporary school teaching practices in Model School Network (MSN) schools to assist in with the goal of developing short and long-term strategies for their improvement. Teacher, educational administrators, parents and student attitudes were gathered on a variety of educational issues including: teaching practices, teachers’ qualifications and skills, quality of overall education, facilities, employment practices, development and specialized training. The initial baseline was established in January 2010, and was followed by a post-study in the spring of 2012. The study targeted 40 new public MSN schools, as well as a comparative control group comprised of 10 schools. The initial baseline yielded 6,400 interviews with stakeholders. Findings included an analysis of the link between the socioeconomic background of respondents, the effectiveness of youth enrichment activities, and interaction between parents, teachers and schools. AWRAD’s final report provided a series of recommendations which emphasized the achievements of the MSN program, as well as providing recommendations on necessary systemic changes related to internal school dynamics, such as teacher and principal qualifications, and the role of the Ministry of Education and community resources.

“SAWT Roundtables and Advocacy Activities.” - 2011-2013
The SAWT program is dedicated to commissioning research and conducting public opinion polling and policy research to support democratic and developmental discourse among Palestinians. SAWT is an Arabic word (noun) that has two powerful and relevant meanings: “Voice” and “Vote.” In pursuit of these goals, AWRAD conducts public opinion polling and policy research to support democratic and developmental discourse among Palestinians. SAWT' the program' will be the voice of the Palestinian public in policy-making forums through  conducting  scientific national and district public opinion polling; organizing focus groups on issues of relevance to Palestinians; publish brief issue analysis papers and policy reports on pressing issues; organize roundtable meetings with decision makers; utilize the media to raise public awareness about needs of Palestinians. The two major topics SAWT has addressed are honor killings and political freedoms. Through  conducting  several public opinion polls, convening of roundtables and discussion groups and a concerted advocacy campaign utilizing the media and prominent Palestinian figures and institutions, SAWT’s efforts have contributed to the broader civil society advocacy and mobilization efforts around this issue. The clause of Palestinian law that provides exemption for murders committed in the name of honor has been abolished.

“External Evaluation of the Project: Support to Palestinian Democrats.” - 2011
The evaluation draws lessons and implications on the broader socio-political changes in the region and how they influence best practices in the field of development and democracy promotion. The evaluation adopted a participatory interactive approach using both qualitative and quantitative data gathering tools. The following issues were emphasized: organizational capacity building level and service delivery. The research process was conducted through survey questionnaires, distributed among direct and indirect beneficiaries of the implemented activities and focus groups targeting relevant activists, officials and other individuals. A final report was authored  explaining the major findings.

“GIS Geo-Electricity Data Systems.” - 2009-2010
AWRAD and (JDECO) successfully conducted the first phase of a survey in Bethlehem Governorate which aimed at the comprehensive mapping and signage of the entire physical infrastructure (poles and networks) of JDECO’s electricity network in preparation for a comprehensive upgrade of the network.  The team included 15 of AWRAD’s researchers, who were electricity engineers and specialists in data collection in this field. The team participated in extensive trainings by experts at AWRAD and the JDECO team.

“Needs Assessment and Institutional Structures in Three Communities.” - 2008
AWRAD was a partner in carrying out a needs assessment in three communities in the West Bank; Jericho region, Shufa't camp and Faraa' camp. The objective of the assessment was to understand and analyze the institutional structures in the communities, as well as needs and priorities in the communities especially in regard to human needs for the people with disability, youth and women. The study was carried out with the International Management Group and supported by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA).

“Compass: AWRAD’s Eye on Palestine; Data Trends.” - 2015-On-going
Compass is an initiative recently launched by AWRAD to provide tracking and analysis of survey data, trends and current events in Palestine and abroad. Compass is an effort to combine the data collected from AWRAD Polls with the analysis, perspective and academic background of AWRAD’s office experts and analysts. In effect, Compass focuses on the stories in the data that are not revealed on the surface, focusing on the deeper meaning of certain results, the circumstances that may have induced them and what these perceptions or responses could mean for future developments or initiatives. Examples of Compass topics include the peace process, empowerment of women and youth, prospects for Palestinian development and foreign relations.

“AWRAD’s Community Development Fund.” - 2007-On-going
In 2007, AWRAD established the Community Development Fund (CDF) to support the dissemination of progressive and humanitarian values. This Fund reflects the commitment of AWRAD to serve the wider community and its national and developmental issues, reinforcing the importance of restoring the spirit of volunteerism and the giving of self in an effective, meaningful context. AWRAD’s CDF supports a number of initiatives including the publication and dissemination of intellectual, cultural and literature texts that represent a challenge to the prevailing ideology in order to bolster a period mental and emotional enlightenment. AWRAD’s CDF unlocks the horizon by encouraging individual and independent creative writing, in order to promote intellectual freedom and creativity. AWRAD’s Fund has supported the publication of books, organized awareness promotion activities and sponsored a number of training endeavors with young people. 

“Palestinian Political Development and Democracy Promotion (Regular Surveys and Focus Groups)” - 2007-On-going
IRI and AWRAD are implementing a wide-scale project, funded by USAID through the Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI), in the West Bank and Gaza. The project relies primarily on quantitative and qualitative data gained through opinion polling and focus groups. It is designed to support the goal of obtaining more detailed voting data on partisan attitudes and provocative issues necessary for political professionals to understand the issues on “the street.”  At the time of writing, 120,000 Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza have been polled throughout the project, and 400 focus groups and 600 in-depth interviews have been conducted. This project involves training and awareness raising activities for hundreds of leaders of various political groups, youth organization and civil society institutions.

“Ana Hur Facebook Group.” - 2011- On-going
In 2011, AWRAD established the Facebook group “Ana Hur,” which translates to “I Am Free.” The main target audience of the page is Palestinian youth. The vision is described in the cover page motto -translated from Arabic- "We meet to promote a culture of freedom, justice, humanity, knowledge, dialogue, and research in a community that longs for renaissance and enlightenment."  The natures of the posts are multidisciplinary focusing primarily on Palestinian youth efforts, activities, volunteerism, service, accomplishments, youth rights and responsibilities, women's rights, ideas and literature of a positive nature. The page does not post on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict in any way. The page currently has an audience of 40,000 followers and is consistently growing.

“Arab Perceptions of Women Leaders in Media, Civil and Political Avenues.” - 2014-On-going
For this assignment, AWRAD distributed 6,000 questionnaires across three countries (Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Yemen). The aim of this project, funded by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), was to provide an improved understanding of public perceptions towards women. The questionnaire contained both country-specific questions asking about women and country-specific media outlets, country-specific civil society organizations, and country-specific political parties and institutions. The questionnaire also asked a large set of unified questions to develop a regional understanding of public perceptions of women leaders and women leadership activity.

“West Bank Qualitative Study: Recruitment, Field Work, Transcription and Analysis.” - 2014-2015
AWRAD was contracted to conduct 20 focus groups in partnership with BBCMA, measuring the perceptions of Palestinian viewers of two specific TV programs. AWRAD was responsible for assembling the office and field team as well as training for focus group facilitation. AWRAD’s field team conducted 20 focus groups across four locations in the West Bank and was responsible for translating and transmitting all data at the close of the project.

“Palestinian Civil Society and Media Sector Assessment.” - 2013-2014
This assessment contributed to the understanding of civil society and media and identified the potential interventions needed to enhance the strength and sustainability of the Palestinian civil society and media sector. The assessment included an evaluation of the external environment and context in which civil society and media currently exist and function, challenges and opportunities in sector to enable potential strategies to be delineated and better aligned in support of a vibrant Palestinian civil society and independent media sector. The assessment also identified how significant issues, geographic areas, gender, and potential effectiveness of civil society and media institutions impact the sector. All key sector perspectives were captured through integrating a variety of data sources, and quantitative and qualitative research methods were employed to contextualize research findings. A total of 15 focus groups, 22 interviews and one survey targeting 553 CSOs, media outlets and key informants were carried out. The final report provided seven recommendations focused on areas for potential programmatic focus, suggestions for changes in internal USAID practice and an overall recommendation for all donors to help improve the environment for engagement of civil society with the public authorities.

“Palestinian Media Monitoring of Gender Equality.” - 2014
AWRAD conducted a specialized media monitoring study for Radio Nisaa FM and the German “Deutsche Welle Akademie”  Foundation, on gender. The study aimed to shed light on the reality of the Palestinian media with regard to gender issues from two perspectives; one about the perception and stereotypical portrayal of Palestinian women in the media, and another on the status of Palestinian female journalists (working conditions, job security and many other issues.)

“Radio Nisaa FM: Three Years After; Results of a Survey in the West Bank and Gaza.” - 2013
The survey aimed to understand the use of radio as a media outlet, study the landscape of radio stations among Palestinians, assess the status of Nisaa FM (96 Nisaa FM), investigate the socio-economic profile of listeners, assess the needs and priorities of listeners concerning issues relevant to women and gender equality, and provide recommendations to improve the standing of Nisaa FM. AWRAD authored a report detailing the findings of a survey carried out in all West Bank and Gaza regions which constitutes a follow-up survey to a smaller scale survey that took place during December 2010. AWRAD collected quantitative data on the perceptions and attitudes of respondents covering 635 Palestinian adults (18 years or more) in both the West Bank and Gaza, providing overall analysis and other disaggregation by region, gender, age, and education.

“Monitoring and Evaluation of CPP’s Impact on Civil Society and Local Governments, Civic Participation Program (CPP).” - 2011- 2014
AWRAD implemented a series of evaluations to gauge the $20 million USAID-funded CPP’s on-going and cumulative impact on all beneficiaries. Over a three years period, AWRAD produced regular performance and impact data for learning, decision-making and reporting purposes. The assignment included the conducting of baseline and end-line surveys, thematic studies and periodic reporting. The thematic studies focused on gender and civic participation, youth and civic participation and promoting partnership and networking. Stakeholders included NGOs, CBOs, PA ministries and local government entities. A mixed method approach was adopted throughout.

“Assessment of Media Development in Palestine.” - 2012-2013
 The assessment highlighted researches on various related media topics, including media curricula, infrastructure, laws, ethics and syndicate regulatory procedures and action.  The 18 month study covered both the West Bank and Gaza, as a partnership between the MDC at Birzeit University, and UNESCO. AWRAD conducted opinion polls, using a representative sample of 555 journalists (60 percent from the West Bank and 40 percent from the Gaza Strip) carried out concurrently in both parts of the country. AWRAD completed 400 questionnaires through face-to-face interviews, and 155 questionnaires through phone or by email. The sample was chosen from a comprehensive list of journalists working in Palestine, taken from sources such as the Palestinian Journalists’ Syndicate, the directory of the Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of International Affairs (PASSIA), CSOs and government institutions to ensure equal representation across the various sectors. To complement the results of the opinion poll, the research team carried out a total of 58 interviews in both the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Interviewees included media experts, journalists, media managers, representatives of the Palestinian Journalists’ Syndicate, civil society representatives and members of government. The assessment was supported by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) 

“Mapping and Participatory Needs Assessment of Civil Society in Libya.” - 2012
AWRAD completed a CSO mapping study on evolving Libyan civil society in November 2012. The study was carried out by the AWRAD team in Libya and Palestine employing a participatory approach. The data was collected through a survey of CSOs in the various regions of the country. Data and analysis were also carried out through six focus groups and in-depth interviews. A full mapping report and a directory of 100 CSOs are now available.  AWRAD organized a national validation workshop to discuss the preliminary results of the mapping. Two additional focus groups with CSOs, youth organizations, and government officials were also conducted during November 2012. The study is supported by the Foundation for the Future.

“Poll on TV and Radio Follow-up in Palestine.” - 2012
AWRAD conducted a special media public opinion poll for the Ma’an News Agency to assess the followership patterns for the Ma’an network. AWRAD provided detailed data for the Agency on the viewership patterns in terms of geography, age and gender. 

“Evaluation of PNGO III Capacity Building Interventions.” - 2011
Through this World Bank funded assignment, AWRAD evaluated the capacity building interventions under the third Palestinian NGO project (PNGOIII). The objective of this study was to measure the effectiveness of NDC’s capacity building interventions under PNGOIII in bringing NDC supported NGOs and NGO networks to a higher level of capacity through a review and assessment of the different types of assistance provided in achieving positive outcomes of the capacity building interventions. The team collected the data through desk review, 100 interviews in addition to focus groups and case studies.

“National Survey in Palestine: Media Use.” - 2010
In 2010, AWRAD partnered with Intermedia Survey Institute to conduct a survey on media use in Palestine. The central objective of the survey was to collect data on media use in general, foreign listenership behavior and existing and potential listener preferences. A representative sample of 1,500 Palestinians over the age of 15 was targeted across the West Bank and Gaza. The questionnaire measured several important topics including general media use, radio listenership, international radio listenership, other media (TV, Internet) followership and perceptions of foreign countries.

“Study on the Use of Internet by Palestinian Youth in the West Bank and Gaza.” - 2010
AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll measuring use of the Internet and modern online technology among youth. The survey measured consumption patterns, use of social networking site, followership of various news sites and devices used to access the Internet, among other topics. This was accomplished through quantitative surveys and qualitative focus groups. A total of 1,200 youth were targeted for the survey drawn from a random sample of households and also Internet café patrons. Furthermore, eight focus groups were conducted with youth in the West Bank and Gaza. At the close of the project, AWRAD authored an illustrative report detailing the major results.

“Media, Radio and TV Survey.” - 2009-2010
AWRAD partnered with PARC to carry out a national household survey on national media viewership trends in Palestine. The survey was conducted across all governorates in Palestine and was representative according to locality, gender, refugee status and other demographics. In total, 1,400 Palestinians were interviewed.

“Galaxy TV and Satellite Survey.” - 2009
For this project, AWRAD worked with PARC to conduct a survey on TV viewership and media trends in Palestine. The project was defined by the distribution of quantitative survey questionnaires among Palestinians living in Gaza, Ramallah and al Bireh and Nablus. In total, 300 interviews were conducted, according to population of the city.

“Organizational and Strategic Review Evaluation of Khalil Sakakini Cultural Center.” - 2009
AWRAD carried out an organizational and strategic review of the Khalil Sakakini Cultural Center (KSCC). The main goal of this endeavor was to help ensure that after years of operations, the KSCC can reflect and review its progress, role and strategic impact to date and to assess the optimum role and use of resources to meet its mission and mandate within a changing social and cultural environment. The sources of data for this evaluation were the existing documents of the KSCC, in-depth interviews with stakeholders and experts, and focus groups with various categories of the KSCC audience.

“Mapping and Evaluation of Palestinian NGOs.” - 2008
This project surveyed the different categories of Palestinian NGOs, to understand their needs and priorities. The study also aimed at providing recommendations for planning for development from the perspective of the various NGOs. It involved carrying out scores of focus groups with representatives and beneficiaries of NGOs in all 11 districts in the West Bank.

“Media and Palestinian Public Opinion The West Bank and Gaza Strip: Media Surveys.”
On a quarterly basis AWRAD is producing reports derived from a quantitative survey conducted to measure media use as it relates to political preference in Palestine. Over the past three years, AWRAD has conducted 10 separate surveys, comprising 52,000 questionnaires, and reported on the major trends. Each survey is designed to be complementary to allow quick and easy comparison with earlier results, in order to determine the most visible, as well as detailed trends. Each report is complete with visual aids, including tables and graphs, to assist the reader’s comprehension. Significantly, each report includes significant conclusions on the state of media and political opinions to help guide policy formulation and programming awareness. 

“Baseline and End Line Surveys for the Sharaka Public Prosecution Project.” - 2013 – 2016
 AWRAD collected baseline data on eleven performance indicators designed to measure progress towards the development of a fair and effective public prosecution system that protects the rights of Palestinians. Data was collected from seven stakeholder groups: the Palestinian public in the West Bank, judges, lawyers, prosecutors and employees of the Office of the Attorney General and Public Prosecution (OAG/PP), prosecution service users, international donors in the Palestinian legal system and non-state actors, including leaders of relevant NGOs, human rights organizations and academic and research institutions. Fieldwork was conducted simultaneously with all seven stakeholders using 35 qualified field researchers. In 2014, AWRAD was asked to conduct an end line survey to measure the changes and progress achieved as a result of programming in the previous year. The same stakeholder groups were targeted, using a similar survey to the baseline round, together with additional questions targeted at the various implemented interventions. AWRAD submitted a final report identifying major trends and changes in perceptions, as well as possible explanations for these changes to aid future policy and program development within the justice sector.

“Family Law Poll.” - 2013
AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll measuring the use and perceptions of family (Sharia’) law courts in Palestine. Questions measured respondents’ perceptions of the court and the law, as well as marriage and divorce, inheritance, maintenance and legal reform. Roughly 4,000 male and female respondents were targeted across the West Bank and Gaza.

“A Study of Juvenile Justice in the occupied Palestinian territories.” - 2009-2010
This project was an endeavor to assist the Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA) in developing a comprehensive strategy to improve the juvenile justice system in Palestine. It aimed to enhance the rule of law and adherence to national and international standards of fair trial and treatment of children by providing a baseline assessment of the structures and needs of relevant authorities. This was accomplished through a series of in-depth interviews and focus groups targeting the leading voices and authorities in juvenile justice. The process was also informed by a broad literature review and field visits to rehabilitation institutions. At the close of the project, a report was authored and a dissemination workshop was organized to present findings and to provide recommendations.

“Baseline Surveys on the Formal Justice Sector.” - 2008-2009
AWRAD was contracted by Netham (A DPK-managed project supported by USAID) to carry out and report on five baseline surveys to be conducted within the West Bank.  The purpose of the surveys were to assess the performance of the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC)  and courts users in order for Netham to be better able to propose needed developmental recommendations to improve the SJC and courts performance. The surveys targeted the following groups: judges, lawyers, court staff, court users and the general public. Over 2,000 interviews were carried out in all West Bank districts and gauged the current standing of the various stakeholders on the performance of the various components of the judicial process including the police, the prosecution, the courts, the lawyers and the government in general. A mixed methods approach was used throughout.  

Design and Institutionalize an M&E System for Social Development in Saudi Arabia - 2016
AWRAD worked with the Ministry of Labor and Social Development in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to provide guidance and consulting experience in the development of indices and indicators related to social development. This consultancy was designed to inform the larger National Transformation Program recently launched. In the course of the project, AWRAD established indicators in the education, health, human development and poverty alleviation sectors. These were designed to benchmark and track efforts related to social equality, empowerment of marginalized groups, such as women and children, and improve quality of life. Currently, the indicators are being employed and tested within the Kingdom.

“Public Perception Survey of the Palestinian Civil Police (PCP).” - 2014-On-going
In cooperation with the PCBS, Human Dynamics, European Union Coordinating Office for Palestinian Police Support (EUPOL COPPS), UNDP, and the PCP, AWRAD analyzed the results of a public perception survey of PCP performance in Palestine. The development of the survey and the analysis of its results were highly informed by the extensive consultative process among all stakeholders. The survey included assessments of perceptions on: safety, general perceptions of PCP, PCP service delivery, contacts and complaints, gender and juvenile, service delivery development. The analytical report included specific recommendations for the PCP to improve certain areas of their work. AWRAD also prepared and conducted a two-day training for the police officers on the importance and use of public opinion surveys. One workshop targeted the senior officers and the other targeted the junior officers.

“Youth: Agents of Social Change.” - 2013-2014
This was a broad project aiming to empower youth across Palestine and connect them with their local communities. Youth from all 16 governorates in the West Bank and Gaza were recruited to participate in training programs offering instruction in survey research and polling techniques, as well as participate in activities to brainstorm for engagement initiatives. At the conclusion of the training, the youth served as field researchers in two public opinion polls in the West Bank and Gaza. They also helped organize a variety of activities for members of their community to brighten their lives and strengthen the social fabric. These activities included organizing Iftar dinners, visiting children in hospitals, organizing activities for the elderly and bringing dates and other sweets to Palestinians stuck at checkpoints.

“Party Empowerment Initiative Morocco: Results of a Survey and Focus Groups.” - 2008
AWRAD was contracted to assist in the provision of data and analysis   for the benefit of Moroccan political parties. Prior to this assignment, a needs assessment had concluded that these parties were underprepared in outreach and planning strategies that would be better informed by the collection of qualitative and quantitative data. The project adopted a three-phase approach. The first phase was immediate exploration of the needs of the parties, accomplished through meetings with leading figures. The second phase included meetings, workshops, focus groups and report writing. The third phase was defined by the distribution of surveys among party members to determine their needs, priorities and evaluations of party-related issues.  