“M&E Consultancy for the Enhanced Palestinian Justice Project (EPJP).” - 2014 – 2018
AWRAD is contracted to implement M&E surveys of the EPJP project, which aims to strengthen the Palestinian justice sector by providing improved services and training to key stakeholders. AWRAD has completed a baseline assessment, and will conduct a midline and end line assessment across four years to measure a variety of indicators relevant to justice sector performance. To do this, AWRAD has designed a mixed-methods approach, utilizing questionnaires, interviews and focus groups, that will inform EPJP planning and strategy.

“Baseline and End Line Surveys for the Sharaka Public Prosecution Project.” - 2013 – 2016
 AWRAD collected baseline data on eleven performance indicators designed to measure progress towards the development of a fair and effective public prosecution system that protects the rights of Palestinians. Data was collected from seven stakeholder groups: the Palestinian public in the West Bank, judges, lawyers, prosecutors and employees of the Office of the Attorney General and Public Prosecution (OAG/PP), prosecution service users, international donors in the Palestinian legal system and non-state actors, including leaders of relevant NGOs, human rights organizations and academic and research institutions. Fieldwork was conducted simultaneously with all seven stakeholders using 35 qualified field researchers. In 2014, AWRAD was asked to conduct an end line survey to measure the changes and progress achieved as a result of programming in the previous year. The same stakeholder groups were targeted, using a similar survey to the baseline round, together with additional questions targeted at the various implemented interventions. AWRAD submitted a final report identifying major trends and changes in perceptions, as well as possible explanations for these changes to aid future policy and program development within the justice sector.

“Family Law Poll.” - 2013
AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll measuring the use and perceptions of family (Sharia’) law courts in Palestine. Questions measured respondents’ perceptions of the court and the law, as well as marriage and divorce, inheritance, maintenance and legal reform. Roughly 4,000 male and female respondents were targeted across the West Bank and Gaza.

“A Study of Juvenile Justice in the occupied Palestinian territories.” - 2009-2010
This project was an endeavor to assist the Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA) in developing a comprehensive strategy to improve the juvenile justice system in Palestine. It aimed to enhance the rule of law and adherence to national and international standards of fair trial and treatment of children by providing a baseline assessment of the structures and needs of relevant authorities. This was accomplished through a series of in-depth interviews and focus groups targeting the leading voices and authorities in juvenile justice. The process was also informed by a broad literature review and field visits to rehabilitation institutions. At the close of the project, a report was authored and a dissemination workshop was organized to present findings and to provide recommendations.

“Public Prosecution Data Collection.” - 2009
In this assignment, AWRAD, in support of the EU-funded Syada Project, helped to resolve the issue of case-backlog – a major challenge to the proper functioning of the Palestinian judicial system. AWRAD and Syada, in close consultation with the Attorney General Office and the Prosecutors, designed and carried out a plan to code, enter, and store the completed and pending files into a computerized database   utilizing the software (MIZAN1). AWRAD completed the work plan within three weeks and finalized the data entry of a total of 13,508 files across all 11 district offices of the public prosecution in the West Bank using a team of experienced data experts.

“Baseline Surveys on the Formal Justice Sector.” - 2008-2009
AWRAD was contracted by Netham (A DPK-managed project supported by USAID) to carry out and report on five baseline surveys to be conducted within the West Bank.  The purpose of the surveys were to assess the performance of the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC)  and courts users in order for Netham to be better able to propose needed developmental recommendations to improve the SJC and courts performance. The surveys targeted the following groups: judges, lawyers, court staff, court users and the general public. Over 2,000 interviews were carried out in all West Bank districts and gauged the current standing of the various stakeholders on the performance of the various components of the judicial process including the police, the prosecution, the courts, the lawyers and the government in general. A mixed methods approach was used throughout.  

“Public Perception Survey of the Palestinian Civil Police (PCP).” - 2014-On-going
In cooperation with the PCBS, Human Dynamics, European Union Coordinating Office for Palestinian Police Support (EUPOL COPPS), UNDP, and the PCP, AWRAD analyzed the results of a public perception survey of PCP performance in Palestine. The development of the survey and the analysis of its results were highly informed by the extensive consultative process among all stakeholders. The survey included assessments of perceptions on: safety, general perceptions of PCP, PCP service delivery, contacts and complaints, gender and juvenile, service delivery development. The analytical report included specific recommendations for the PCP to improve certain areas of their work. AWRAD also prepared and conducted a two-day training for the police officers on the importance and use of public opinion surveys. One workshop targeted the senior officers and the other targeted the junior officers.