Associations between exposures to occupation-related events, depression and intimate partner violence among women in the occupied Palestinian Territories
This paper focuses on war and conflict impact on women’s mental health and experiences of intimate partner violence (IPV), including in the occupied Palestinian Territories (oPT).

Drawing on a cross-sectional population representative sample (n=534) collected in February 2017 in the oPT, we sought to (i) characterise the patterning of occupation-related events among women (18+) living in the oPT, (ii) to descriptively assess factors associated with this patterning, (iii) to assess the health impacts of occupation-related events by this patterning, specifically experience of IPV and poor mental health, and (iv) to assess the pathways through which occupation-related events are associated with IPV experience.

Using Latent Class Analysis we identified three 'classes’ of exposure to occupation-related events: 1 in 20 experienced multiple forms directed at themselves, their families and homes, 42.3% reported experiences against family members and their homes, and half reported relatively few direct experiences of occupation-related violence. Group membership was associated with increased past year IPV experience, and depressive symptoms. Using structural equation modelling we demonstrate that experiences of occupation-related events increased IPV experience via two mediated pathways; increased gender inequitable attitudes, and increased depressive symptoms and quarrelling with their husband. Preventing IPV requires addressing occupation-related events as well as transforming gender norms.

Click here to open the full article

In-depth Assessment of Women’s Access to and Ownership of Land and Productive Resources in the occupied Palestinian territory
In this study, PWWSD presents data and analysis on the challenges faced by rural women in the field of economic empowerment, specifically in relation to their right of ownership and access to land and productive resources in a settler-colonial context that deprives Palestinian women and their families of land ownership. Furthermore, it provides a critical analysis from a gender lens on the impact of the patriarchal system on the rights of rural women of access to and ownership of land; it also highlights the legal framework on both the national and international levels related to these rights.

The study includes a number of recommendations that contribute to the economic empowerment of rural women as well as strengthening their resilience on the basis of economic rights to own land and resources; in light of the latest Israeli measures to implement the “annexation plan” of around 30% of the West Bank areas, which threatens the existence of the Palestinians and their Palestinian State.

 

Check out the full report here

 

Diagnostic Assessment and Evaluation of the National Referral System (NRS) for Supporting Victims of Gender-Based Violence (GBV)
AWRAD partnered with Chemonics to perform an assessment and evaluation of the National Referral System (NRS) and its ability to support survivors of gender-based violence (GBV). The project itself had four distinct components. The first was an assessment of the status, context and changes of GBV in the West Bank, including an evaluation of the Takamol project. The second was a mapping study of the major actors working in the field of GBV and the roles adopted and initiatives undertaken. The third was a comprehensive assessment of the NRS and development of a baseline. The final component was the composition of an intervention plan, including tools, methodologies and indicators to identify results of proposed interventions. To complete this multi-pronged assignment, AWRAD developed a mixed-methods approach utilizing in-depth interviews, focus groups, quantitative surveys, a mapping study, meetings with stakeholders and a literature review. Participants included institutions working in the sector of GBV, members of the NRS, women victims of violence, representatives of the government (MOSD, MOH, etc.), representatives of non-governmental organizations (MIFTAH, WCLAC, WATC, etc.), counselors, police and others. At the close of the assignment, AWRAD authored a final report, which served to identify achievements, gaps, challenges, opportunities for improvement, general recommendations and specific interventions to enhance the capacity of the NRS to protect and ensure justice for women victims of violence.

External Evaluation of Grassroots Activities for Just Peace and Gender Equality - 2015
AWRAD was contracted to conduct a final impact assessment of the Just Peace and Gender Equality Project co-implemented by WATC's and CARE International. The assignment was an assessment of the 2-year initiative across the West Bank and Gaza that focused on building the capacity of local grassroots activities to lead local initiatives and advocate for increased participation of women in the economic, social and political spheres. AWRAD’s evaluation targeted 30 communities involved in the project and the research team conducted 300 face-to-face interviews with marginalized women across each location. The research investigated five key thematic areas of interventions: socio-cultural gender norms, limited political participation of women, low public awareness limited civil society capacity, ineffective policy the effects of conflict occupation-related restrictions on movement and access. A final report was authored at the close of the research process, which included an analysis of the program in addition to lessons learned and recommendations. 

21st Century Youth Competencies: A Formative Assessment - 2016
 

AWRAD partnered with IREX to perform a formative assessment of the Partnership with Youth (PWY) focus, with a specific focus devoted to measuring 21st competencies. This project built upon the baseline assessment, completed by AWRAD in 2014, and an internal midline assessment, completed in 2015. AWRAD developed a mixed-methods approach, targeting Palestinian youth and specific beneficiaries of PWY programming, particularly the offerings by Youth Development Resource Centers (YDRCs). The assignment included the distribution of 1,642 questionnaires, divided between a national survey and a beneficiary survey, and 14 focus group discussions with beneficiary youth, non-beneficiary youth and parents and community members. At the close of the assignment, AWRAD authored a final report, detailing major findings and recommendations for the future of the PWY program.

Youth Survey: The Peace Process and Domestic Issues - 2016
In March 2016, AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll, specifically targeting Palestinian youth. This assignment constitutes the first half of the poll, with topics focusing on attitudes towards the peace process, negotiations and domestic matters. A total of 1,200 youth (between ages 18 and 25) participated in the survey, drawn from all governorates in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem. After analysis of the final results, AWRAD’s researchers authored a press release for online publication and dissemination among the media.

Survey of the Teachers’ Strike - 2016
In March 2016, AWRAD conducted a survey of Palestinians, measuring awareness and perceptions of the ongoing strike by Palestinian teachers. The survey targeted 500 respondents in the West Bank through face-to-face interviews and 200 opinion leaders through an online survey. Opinion leaders were defined as political party leaders, civil society leaders, governmental and private sector figures, journalists and media representatives, youth activists and professionals. AWRAD authored a final press release detailing the major findings. 

Survey Services – Hebron City - 2016
AWRAD partnered with TIPH to conduct a public opinion survey in the city of Hebron, assessing perceptions regarding the presence and operations of TIPH. The survey targeted a total of 600 residents of Hebron through face-to-face interviews, with residents of H2, the area under Israeli control, receiving the bulk of the sample. Indicators focused on awareness of TIPH’s presence, the impact of TIPH’s presence, goals and roles for TIPH to fulfill and general circumstances related to life in occupied Hebron. AWRAD authored a final report detailing the most significant findings and perceptions of Hebron residents and also conducted a one-day presentation for TIPH members in the city of Hebron to discuss the results and field questions. 

A Survey of the Palestinian Private Sector - 2016
 

In June 2016, AWRAD conducted a public opinion survey among private sector figures on the state of the private sector. A total of 221 individuals were surveyed on topics such as the overall economic situation, the relationship between the PA and the private sector, the BDS movement and the Palestinian economy and opportunities for improvements. A press release was authored, detailing the results of the survey.  

An Online Poll of Palestinian Public Opinion Leaders: Current Protests and the Future - 2015
In December 2015, AWRAD conducted an online survey of Palestinian opinion leaders, a segment of society including political party leaders, civil society leaders, high-ranking government and private sector officials, journalists, youth activists, and professionals. The goal of the survey was to assess perceptions related to the wave of protests and demonstrations that were occurring across the West Bank and Gaza and other topics related to contemporary Palestinian issues. A total of 423 individuals participated in the online survey. AWRAD authored a press release, detailing the results of the survey and possible implications for the future. 

An Online Study of Palestinian Youth: The Current Protests - 2015
In December 2015, AWRAD conducted a specialized poll of youth, prompted by the outbreak of protests, demonstrations and violence in the previous months. This poll was specifically designed to measure youth perceptions towards the recent events and other general themes related to youth life in Palestine. A total of 505 Palestinian youth (ages 16-35) were targeted in an online survey. AWRAD authored a press release detailing the results and implications for youth prospects, their relationship with decision-makers, their goals and other relevant topics.

Four Policy Papers on the Palestinian Labor Market - 2015
 

As a follow-up to AWRAD’s partnership with CARE International on the project: Skills Gaps and Development in the Occupied Palestinian Territory, the AWRAD team was tasked with writing four policy papers on the Palestinian labor market. These four documents were concise analyses of significant issues in the modern Palestinian labor market and focused on women’s role, promoting entrepreneurship, the relationship between the private and educational sector and other relevant matters. A central focus of each paper was the role that regulations, structures and laws played in shaping, influencing and expanding various economic sectors and how policies could be tailored to accommodate or adjust these laws. Microcredit and finance was also examined in the discussion of entrepreneurship with paper authors focusing on success stories and the role of lending organizations in promoting small business sustainability.

Final Impact Survey for the Participatory Natural Resources Management Program (PNRMP) - 2016
AWRAD recently completed the final impact survey study of the PNRMP program designed to assess the current physical and socioeconomic status of targeted households, assess beneficiaries’ experiences and perceptions, document successes, challenges and lessons learned and develop recommendations for future interventions. The research team developed a mixed-methods approach, predicated on a quantitative impact survey, in-depth interviews, focus groups, database analysis and field visits to beneficiary communities. Furthermore, the methodology was specifically designed to employ a control group, allowing comparisons to be made with the beneficiary community at the close of the project. At the close of the assignment, AWRAD authored a Final Impact Survey Report, analyzing triangulated data and proposing recommendations and lessons learned for future projects. A final workshop was also convened with PNRMP staff to present pertinent conclusions.

Independent Evaluation of the Palestinian Partnership for Infrastructure Development Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) - 2016
 

AWRAD and the World Bank recently partnered to perform an evaluation of the MDTF. The Trust Fund was established as an instrument to pool funds and harmonize interventions aligned with the PA priorities for infrastructure in the water, urban development and energy sectors across the West Bank and Gaza. AWRAD designed its methodology to assess the overall relevance, effectiveness and impact of 3 years of the PID MDTF program activities  implementation, and to derive recommendations for adjustments which would enable the program to achieve its objectives moving forward and to realize its vision and strategic direction. This was completed through the conducting of 50 in-depth interviews with key stakeholders, including representatives of donor countries, implementing agencies, World Bank staff, and Task Team Leaders (TTLs) responsible for various projects and 12 field visits to project sites. AWRAD’s findings were summarized in a final analytical report, which also assessed how the PID MDTF structure and implementation tools coped with the rapid expansion of funds and donors following the 2014 war in Gaza.

Final Evaluation of the Schools as Zones of Peace (SZoP) Project - 2015
AWRAD completed a partnership with MDC to evaluate their Schools As Zones of Peace (SZoP) project. The goal of this project was to enhance resilience and provide safe and healthy educational environments for children and adolescents in some of the most marginalized and threatened Area C communities in the West Bank. AWRAD developed a mixed-methods approach, beginning with the analysis of a UN dataset, spanning multiple years, to determine which schools were most impacted by conflict and the various and multiple threats each endured. Simultaneously, the research team conducted a series of focus groups and interviews with students, parents, teachers, school employees and principals to identify the most pressing threats to a secure and health environment and collect recommendations for future planning. The AWRAD team authored a final, analytical report assessing the current circumstances faced by students and identified interventions and related actors to improve the educational environment. 

“Gender Assessment of Local Government and Infrastructure (LGI) Program.” - 2013
 

This gender assessment focused on two distinct gender gaps within local governance. Firstly the limited representation of women as elected officials in local councils and staff within LGUs and the MoLG. Secondly, gender disparities in the provision of municipal services. AWRAD developed a mixed-methods methodology to assess the extent both of these gender gaps and provided recommendations for how LGI could increase both accessibility of and uptake by women of these services through on-going programming and implementation.

“USAID Gender Assessment and Training.” - 2012
AWRAD was the coordinating body for the gender assessment commissioned by the United States Agency for International Development Mission in West Bank and Gaza (USAID/WBG). AWRAD’s President was the co-team leader for the assessment and one of the four main authors of the assessment report itself. The assessment was conducted in coordination with USAID’s Office of Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment (GenDev) to inform the USAID’s strategic planning process for 2012-2014. The assessment provided an overview of the context in which gender issues were analyzed, identified  systemic issues which cut across all sectors, detailed a sector-specific analysis of the USAID/West Bank/Gaza current program, assessing how it responds to the PA’s Gender Sector Strategy; highlighting the good practices, challenges, and gaps; and providing recommendations on entry points, expected results, and suggested indicators; proposed ways to integrate gender concerns into the USAID Results Framework;  and outlined elements of an implementation plan for USAID/West Bank/Gaza. The field work for the gender assessment covered a three-week period of in-briefings with the Mission Director, Senior Staff, Technical Offices, and Program Office, and semi structured  interviews with key informants, implementing partners and sub-contractors, government agencies, and NGOs.  Data was collected on gender-based issues, constraints, and opportunities in the five main program areas of the WBG Mission. The recommendations were integrated into the Mission’s operational framework, including constraints, and processes, and   provided concrete best practice examples from the West Bank and Gaza program and, from other parts of the world.  The assessment was followed by a two-day training workshop with USAID program staff.

“Strategy Development for the General Union for Palestinian Women (GUPW).” - 2010-2011
AWRAD partnered with the General Union for Palestinian Women (GUPW) to provide technical training assistance for the development of a four year strategic plan. Working as the principal consultant and supervisor, AWRAD worked with GUPW staff in a participatory process that included scores of meetings, focus groups, and consultations on the national and local level. Hundreds of young women were interviewed in order to assess their needs and aspirations when considering the final strategy. By the conclusion of the project, AWRAD and the GUPW successfully developed a refined set of concepts, objectives, and tools to help achieve overall goals.

“Women with Disability (WWD) in the West Bank: Baseline Survey.” - 2008-2009
AWRAD conducted a baseline survey of women with disabilities supported by the Stars of Hope Society (SHS) to help guide their mission, goals and programs in empowering WWD in The West Bank and to widen their access to WWD. The survey assessed the situation of the WWD in Palestine from different life aspects and identified major obstacles that face the women with disabilities in the West Bank. The findings of the survey were then used to build a user-friendly database for the SHS in-order to access women with disabilities. The sample consisted of 434 women aged between 18-40 years old and targeted three types of disability (visual, physical and hearing disabilities).The sample was built on the lists provided by the SHS and other lists from the Community Based Rehabilitation program and UNRWA.  The researchers also used the snowball technique to reach as many WWD as they could. The survey reached women with disabilities through all the governorates of West Bank, and was able to access women in very remote areas and villages in the south and the north of West Bank.

“M&E Baseline Youth Assessment.” - 2014
AWRAD worked with PwY staff to develop three assessment indicators to establish the baseline for the program which targets youth between the ages of 14-29 to assess levels of 21st century competencies,  levels of participation and engagement,  and  gender  sensitivity.  AWRAD conducted a rapid assessment, a comprehensive and detailed literature review, and developed appropriate typology and definitions of these indicators and their unique circumstances within the Palestinian context. Additionally, AWRAD developed a framework to measure "21st century competencies" among youth in Palestine. AWRAD conducted a baseline, face-to-face survey of 2,900 Palestinian youth to measure these indicators. The results of both the quantitative and qualitative data collection were presented to leading IREX partners to ensure maximum comprehension and partner buy-in.  A series of recommendations and concerns to be addressed were prepared in a final report.

“University Student Council Elections: Survey among Students.” - 2014
 

On the eve of Student Council elections at various Palestinian universities, AWRAD conducted a specialized opinion poll, focusing on: university student priorities, issues, election participation, Student Council performance and government performance. The poll was conducted in the aftermath of the recent reconciliation agreement, and two days before the conducting of the highly political and competitive student elections. This recent public opinion poll represents an additional endeavor to demonstrate the effectiveness of survey research in the political process. The questionnaire was fielded in April 2014 in three universities: Arab American University- Jenin (AAUJ), Birzeit University- Ramallah & Al Bireh (BZU), and Hebron University (HU). These selected universities recently conducted elections for their student councils. The elections were highly contested and all relevant political groups including Fatah, Hamas, and other independent and leftist groups participated in the process. A representative sample of 1,395 students was interviewed in the West Bank, 476 in AAUJ, 460 in BZU, and 459 in HU. The results were later weighted to reflect the size of the student population of each campus.

“Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA): Village and Neighborhood Development Project (VNDP)” - 2012-2013
The BIA provided an independent evaluation of the involvement of marginalized groups in the development process in the targeted communities and the equitable distribution of the VNDP benefits, with particular focus on issues of impact of implemented activities on all project stakeholders including Joints Service Councils, District offices, and project support group members, social exclusion based on gender, vulnerability and social power. The assessment included surveys with direct stakeholders and community members in addition to in-depth interviews and focus groups. At the conclusion of the evaluation, AWRAD authored a report, complete with a series of recommendations for programming in the final phase of implementation, which could assist in meeting program goals and benchmarks.

“Diagnostic Report: Youth and Local Government, Reality and Prospects.” - 2011
 

This study investigated and explored the reality and prospects of youth participation and volunteerism within local governance in an attempt to inform decision-making circles including Local Government Units (LGU), the Ministry of Local Government (MoLG), civil society and political parties. The study analyzed existing data, collected new data through a number of surveys with youth, local government officials and leaders of youth organizations. The study promoted national dialogue on youth rights and led to the design and implementation of new programs to encourage youth participation. The work culminated in a national one-day forum to discuss the results, advocate on behalf of youth, and bridge the distance between youth and LGUs.

“Evaluation of the American Scholarship Fund.” - 2007
This project was an assessment of the AMIDEAST - USAID project (American Scholarship Fund Project – ASFP). The evaluation touched on the relevance, effectiveness and impact of the project, with a specific focus on its efficiency - procedures, staffing, indicators, criteria and transparency. AWRAD utilized a multi-approach data collection and analysis methods, with a focus on existing databases and qualitative in depth interviews and case studies. AWRAD interviewed families, school directors and other staff in the various WBG regions. The analyses included a database file of 10,000 cases collected by AMIDEAST.

“Qualitative Research on Recruitment Processes in Palestine.” - 2015
 

AWRAD recently partnered with the BTC to conduct a qualitative research project examining the transition of recent graduates into the Palestinian labor market. The aim of the research is to identify the impact of various labor market constraints on recruitment processes and the ability of young Palestinians to find work. As such, the research draws on respondents from the supply side, graduates and recent hires, and the demand side, HR managers and enterprise owners. The research itself is conducted through the Delphi method and will be defined by three stages of qualitative research: interviews, focus groups and workshops. After the three stages of data collection are completed, a final report will be authored with recommendations and identification of good practices. This research also supports a regional effort undertaken by the International Labor Organization to better understand labor market and recruitment practices. 

“Skills Gaps and Development in the Occupied Palestinian Territories.” - 2014-2015
AWRAD was contracted by CARE International to perform an assessment of the skills gaps in Palestine as they relate to economic development. To successfully complete this assignment AWRAD developed a mixed-methods approach, drawing on questionnaires, focus groups and in-depth semi-structured interviews. Working from the perspective of a gap analysis between skills supply and skills demand, AWRAD  prepared survey tools for recent graduates, employers, educational institutions, with special attention for Technical and Vocational  Education and Training (TVET) centers and others. In addition to determining the skills gaps in Palestine, AWRAD compared and contrasted results with data from the Jordanian and Egyptian labor markets to determine Palestine’s comparative advantage. All of these data and issues where compiled and addressed in a final report detailing recommendations for programming and policy that can positively improve Palestinian laborers and the labor market. Two national-level workshops were organized and facilitated by AWRAD to disseminate the findings of the research in the West Bank and Gaza.

“Final Evaluation of the Post Trauma Rehabilitation of Palestinian Child Ex-Detainees in the West Bank project.” - 2014
 

AWRAD partnered with Save the Children to carry out an evaluation of assignment of their five year $1.8 million EU-funded and EJ YMCA implemented rehabilitation program focusing on child ex-detainees. The central goal of this assignment was assessing the impact of the program on child ex-detainees, their families, and the broader communities, including educational institutions and decision-makers. The evaluation also assessed the program’s contributions to the monitoring and reporting system established under UN Resolution 1612 and the role this played in establishing an effective and efficient feedback loop. This research, and its results,  generated lessons learned from program design and implementation as well as providing actionable recommendations   for immediate and longer term changes to improve impact on the program beneficiaries. AWRAD adopted  a mixed-method approach to the evaluation, reviewing EJ YMCA’s detainee database, project records and reports and conducted  semi-structured interviews and focus groups with project stakeholders including direct beneficiaries, parents, program managers and staff, staff of educational  institutions (vocational and regular public schools) involved in the program and  PA institutions responsible for rehabilitation of ex-detainee children. Ethical considerations were integrated into all evaluation tools.

“Palestinian Workers: A Comprehensive Report on Work Conditions, Priorities and Recommendations.” - 2012-2013
 

AWRAD was recruited by the PGFTU to assist in their development of a research-based future strategy to enhance their responsiveness to the requirements of Palestinian workers in the West Bank, Gaza, Jerusalem, Israel and Israeli settlements.  AWRAD distributed 1,000 questionnaires, conducted 12 in-depth interviews and convened seven focus groups to assess economic and labor conditions across gender, employment sector, occupation, residence and age. Recommendations were provided including priorities for action.

“Situation Assessment of drug use and HIV among injecting drug users in West Bank and Gaza.” - 2011
AWRAD implemented an assessment of drug use in Palestine that included interviewing 350 drug users in West Bank and in Gaza, in addition to conducting 4 focus groups with ex-drug users and with specialists in the field. Furthermore, 20 in-depth interviews were also carried out to collect qualitative data for the assessment. The study was carried out in coordination with the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Health, WHO, and UNDP. The study was accompanied with a campaign directed at government institutions, NGOs, and youth. At the conclusion of the project, AWRAD prepared a comprehensive report that examined the nature of drug use and HIV prevalence in Palestine. The report provided a profile of respondents and also elaborated on lifestyle behaviors and treatment options available to users. AWRAD provided four sets of recommendations, provided by former users, counsellors and social workers, professionals and the research team itself. This was intended to provide the most nuanced and detailed explanation of the problems and obstacles to its amelioration drawn from multiple perspectives. In the appendices, AWRAD provided an index detailing all quantitative results, as well as expert testimony and guidelines for interviews and focus groups.

“Baseline Household Survey on Socioeconomic Conditions of Vulnerable Localities.” - 2011
AWRAD and CARE International carried out a household survey that identified and ranked the neediest Palestinian communities and families in 155 localities in the West Bank and Gaza to determine potential target groups for emergency projects in livelihood and food security, health, water, and NGO safety. The survey also identified the profiles of the families with the most acute and unmet needs to inform the development of priority criteria for assistance. A survey of 3,290 households was completed in 52 communities to determine the degree of vulnerability of each household. The indicators developed reflected a comprehensive approach to vulnerability that focuses on human poverty as defined in various international studies to reflect themes such as: economic well-being, health, water, and access issues. The ranking of the 52 communities included in the study provided the best estimation of the degree of vulnerability in each community as compared with other listed communities. Factor analysis was used to simplify and reduce the number of variables (originally used to serve a number of purposes other than ranking) to determine a unique list of ranking indicators for each of the communities to accommodate the divergent living conditions and issues faced by the two populations. A final ranking table was produced for West Bank and Gaza communities.

“Needs Assessment of the Psychosocial Needs in Private Schools in Gaza.” - 2010
 

The overall goal of the assessment was directed at serving the needs of AMIDEAST and USAID in the implementation of their project with private schools in Gaza. It helped AMIDEAST to determine how to focus their psychosocial services and interventions in the private schools through identifying students’ psychosocial problems and supports needed, identifying the training and capacity building needs and priorities of schools’ administrators, counsellors and teachers regarding psychosocial problems, and drawing recommendations and specific suggestions for the design of an adequate and detailed psychosocial support program prior to interventions. These goals were accomplished through the conducting of specialized surveys and focus groups with students, parents, school administrators and counsellors. In total, AWRAD conducted 13 focus groups and roughly 1,100 interviews.

“Refugee Research Project” - 2008
To fulfil this project AWRAD has conducted field research in Palestine, Lebanon and Jordan to assess the living conditions and needs of Palestinian refugees in these three states. The project’s data collection strategy was defined by survey research, in-depth interviews and focus groups. Over 3,000 refugees, inside and outside of refugee camps were interviewed in the three states. The central themes addressed throughout the assessment were living conditions, human relations, and political recommendations to address, and ideally resolve, outstanding issues. At the conclusion of the project, AWRAD issued a series of conclusions designed to guide the programming and focus of stakeholders.

“Women’s Participation in the Social, Economic and Political Context in the Arab World.” - 2013-2014
For this assignment AWRAD distributed 6,000 questionnaires and conducted eight focus groups across three countries in the Arab World: Libya, Tunisia and Yemen. The aim of this project, funded by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), was to address prevailing social and political norms related to women’s involvement in a wide range of sectors. After completing fieldwork in all three Arab states, AWRAD’s office team developed three PowerPoint presentations and a 100-page report for AWLI. The report highlighted the critical findings on women’s involvement in the economic and political sectors, as well as social perceptions, attitudes and restrictions related to their involvement. Particularly significant to AWRAD’s proposal, the final analytical report and PowerPoint presentations were designed to help influence policy on women’s inclusion throughout the Arab World by providing data on priorities and programming needs.

“Poll of Male and Female Youth.” - 2012-2013
AWRAD conducted a specialized, national public opinion poll targeting Palestinian youth (males and females between 18 and 35 years of age). The survey was designed to explore the current status of lifestyles, access to culture, mobility, use of the Internet/media, gender issues and civil and political issues. AWRAD targeted roughly 4,000 youth across the West Bank and Gaza.

“Baseline Survey of Policy Reform and Fiscal Outcome Indicators in Relation to WTO Requirements.” - 2012-2013
AWRAD conducted this baseline survey to assess current Palestinian attitudes towards the World Trade Organization (WTO), Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) and the Palestinian tax system. For this survey, 750 Palestinians from the general public, 250 business owners and representatives and 150 academics were interviewed across the West Bank. For the public survey, adult Palestinians from all socioeconomic groups across the entirety of the West Bank were represented in the poll. For the business survey, small, medium and large businesses were included. The sample of academics included university professors and students majoring in relevant fields from all the West Bank universities. A specialized questionnaire was designed for each group with common questions to allow for comparisons.

“AWRAD’s Election Day Poll among Palestinian Voters during Palestinian Local Council Elections.” - 2012
In 2012, AWRAD conducted an Election Day poll among Palestinian voters on the 20th of October 2012, during the local Palestinian elections conducted in 93 West Bank communities. AWRAD interviewed 820  voters exiting 202 voting stations in 49 voting centers located in 19 communities in major cities (Jenin, Tulkarem, Nablus, Qalqilya, Jericho, Ramallah, Al Bireh, Bethlehem, Hebron and Yatta) and small towns and villages (Tubas, Qabatiya, Ateel, Salfit, Bedya, Aseera Shamaleya, Birzeit, Abu Dis and Beit Jala). The sample was selected through systematic random selection. AWRAD also convened a press conference to discuss the results of the poll, in which AWRAD explained the methodology, findings and implications for Palestinian politics and society. The results of the poll were published in local media and also in the New York Times.

“The Status of Palestinian Women Regarding Issues and Priorities: Findings of a National Survey and Focus Groups.” - 2011
In 2011, AWRAD conducted a national study on Palestinian women and gender relations. The research sought to explore the changing attitudes and values among Palestinians related to women’s participation in development and equality as a means of promoting democracy and development in Palestine. This was accomplished through a mixed-methods approach, including 3,000 quantitative survey questionnaires distributed equally among males and females on a national level, as well as eight focus groups across the West Bank and Gaza. Focus groups participants were specifically selected for their unique perspectives and many groups were comprised solely of women, women students, women activists and working women. At the close of the research, an analytical report was composed that presented and explained the data and offered conclusions for Palestinian society.

“Surveys among Palestinians in the 1948 Territory.” - 2009
For this project, AWRAD partnered with Zogby International to conduct a survey on media viewership and attitudes towards various political issues among Palestinians in the 1948 territory. AWRAD recruited and trained researchers and conducted the fieldwork. The survey targeted all demographics of Palestinian society (e.g., Muslim, Christian, Druze). A total of 600 face-to-face interviews were conducted.

“President Abbas Speech Survey.” - 2009
AWRAD conducted a poll among 300 Palestinians spread across the West Bank and Gaza designed to measure perceptions of President Abbas’ speech focusing on the formation of an interim government to prepare for national elections. In addition to focusing on current events, the poll also examined perceptions towards various political figures and preferred leadership of a united government.

“Final Evaluation of the EU Partnership for Peace (PfP) Programme.” - 2009
AWRAD was contracted by the Gruppo Soges SpA to conduct the final evaluation of the EC-funded EU Partnership for Peace (PfP) Programme on the basis of an independent assessment of the relevance, efficiency, effectiveness, sustainability and impact of the program. The evaluation was carried out on a sample of relevant projects implemented by Palestinian and Israeli civil society organizations in order to document lessons learned, particularly in relation to relevance and legitimacy, and to provide practical recommendations for the better design and implementation of future calls for proposals.

“Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza: A Survey on the Peace Process.” - 2009
AWRAD teamed up with One Voice, a grassroots movement among Israelis and Palestinians that aims to empower youth leaders and political moderates to conduct a public opinion poll. The poll measured opinions towards the peace process and the priorities of both Palestinians and Israelis. The poll was conducted in 2009 among a sample consisting of 500 face-to-face interviews in Israel and 600 face-to-face interviews in Palestine. All samples were representative of both populations’ demographics.

“An Innovative Survey: Voter Canvassing.” - 2009
This was the first of its kind project in the Arab World, comprising 60,000 interviews in the various regions of the Nablus governorate and funded by the US-Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI). AWRAD utilized advanced methods and technology in data collection, data entry and processing, and involved 40 skilled field researchers with knowledge of the region.  Researchers used maps and other population records to identify their target populations. This project served to perform 'citizen identification,’ an umbrella concept that covers assessment of living conditions, priorities, perceptions and demographics. Once completed successfully, citizen identification becomes the integral tool for developing questionnaires and measuring data and indicators on social, economic and political issues.

“Refugee Research Project” (Palestine, Lebanon and Jordan) - 2008
To fulfil this project AWRAD has conducted field research in Palestine, Lebanon and Jordan to assess the living conditions and needs of Palestinian refugees in these three states. The project’s data collection strategy was defined by survey research, in-depth interviews and focus groups. Over 3,000 refugees, inside and outside of refugee camps were interviewed in the three states. The central themes addressed throughout the assessment were living conditions, human relations, and political recommendations to address, and ideally resolve, outstanding issues. At the conclusion of the project, AWRAD issued a series of conclusions designed to guide the programming and focus of stakeholders.

“Results of an Opinion Poll: The Annapolis Conference, Evaluation of Institutions and Leaders.” - 2007
AWRAD conducted an opinion poll among Palestinians measuring their perceptions and priorities related to the Annapolis Middle East Peace Conference convened in November, 2007. The poll targeted 3,200 Palestinians, 200 from each district across the West Bank and Gaza. In addition to measuring perceptions towards current events, the poll also measured general priorities and perceptions of the performance of leaders. After data was collected and analyzed a press release was authored to inform the public of the results.

Compass: AWRAD’s Eye on Palestine; Data Trends.” - 2015-On-going
Compass is an initiative recently launched by AWRAD to provide tracking and analysis of survey data, trends and current events in Palestine and abroad. Compass is an effort to combine the data collected from AWRAD Polls with the analysis, perspective and academic background of AWRAD’s office experts and analysts. In effect, Compass focuses on the stories in the data that are not revealed on the surface, focusing on the deeper meaning of certain results, the circumstances that may have induced them and what these perceptions or responses could mean for future developments or initiatives. Examples of Compass topics include the peace process, empowerment of women and youth, prospects for Palestinian development and foreign relations.

Youth Survey: Political Activism and Awareness - 2016
In March 2016, AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll, specifically targeting Palestinian youth. The survey measured and evaluated youth knowledge of modern political history, levels of civic participation, willingness to participate in future elections and general perceptions of the current circumstances. A total of 1,200 youth (between ages 18 and 25) participated in the survey, drawn from all governorates in the West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem. After analysis of the final results, AWRAD’s researchers authored a press release for online publication and dissemination among the media.

Women’s Participation in Public Life and Decision-Making - 2016
In June 2016, AWRAD conducted an online survey of Palestinian women. The survey was designed to measure perceptions related to women’s rights and opportunities in Palestine, women’s participation in social, economic and political activities and political preferences. A total of 365 “active” women participated in the survey, defined as those who worked in the public or private sector, are a member of a civil society organization (CSO), political party or union, are full-time students or are currently looking for work. At the conclusion of the research, AWRAD authored a press release for publication and also prepared a presentation for a roundtable discussion with leading figures in women’s empowerment.

A Study of the Impacts of the Political Division on Palestinian Women - 2017
AWRAD partnered with MIFTAH to conduct a study of how the internal Palestinian division between Fatah and Hamas has impacted the lives of women in the West Bank and Gaza. This study focuses on the political, social, economic, cultural and psychological aspects of the division, with specific emphasis devoted to the defunct Palestinian legislature and its effect on women and women’s rights. To accomplish these goals, AWRAD designed a methodology including 50 in-depth interviews, four focus groups and 3 case studies, conducted across the West Bank and Gaza. The study produced an analytical report, assessing the individual impacts of the division, including their causes and effects.

Opinion Surveys for the EU Support to a Taxpayer Awareness Program in Palestine - 2015
In 2015, AWRAD partnered with the EU to assist its work with the Ministry of Finance efforts to increase tax revenue collection and improve compliance. AWRAD developed a baseline survey to measure attitudes and levels of awareness related to taxes among Palestinian citizens. Indicators were developed to measure knowledge, contact with tax authorities, evaluation of the collection system, constraints and moral. These helped to identify the factors that influence citizens and businesses in the payment of taxes, the most challenging issues surrounding tax filing and recommendations to improve the system of revenue collection. AWRAD developed five complementary surveys, distributed among large taxpayers, the next generation of taxpayers (students), NGOs, the public and professionals. A total of 1,800 questionnaires were distributed among these five groups of respondents. AWRAD authored a final report, exploring the baseline data and providing recommendations for project implementation by the EU. Endline surveys will be conducted in 2017.

Independent Endline and Final Evaluation of the Partnership for Community-Led Action for Resilience and Livelihoods (PCARL) - 2016
AWRAD partnered with Save the Children to conduct an evaluation of the PCARL program, an initiative to increase community and partner capacity in supporting vulnerable populations and strengthening resilience in 12 communities in Area C and 6 communities in the ARA zones of Gaza.  The program included activities in protection, livelihoods support and access to basic services. AWRAD evaluated the impact of PCARL activities across six domains, relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability, impact and engagement with stakeholders, collecting data through a combination of survey questionnaires, interviews and focus groups. Following data collection and analysis, AWRAD authored a final report, assessing the performance of PCARL in building resilience across the six evaluation domains, offering conclusions and lessons learned and suggesting relevant, evidence-based recommendations.

Social Survey on Aqbat Jaber Refugee Camp - 2016
AWRAD partnered with JICA to conduct a social survey of the Aqbat Jabr Refugee Camp. The goal of this survey was the development of a “core understanding,” which would help JICA in their implementation of a new technical cooperation project focused on improving public services and social cohesion. The project had four objectives: (1) examining the existing circumstances of the camp, (2) determining pressing and unmet needs, (3) identifying stakeholder groups and their circumstances and (4) identifying distinct actors and their respective roles. In pursuit of these goals, AWRAD designed a mixed-methods approach, employing 571 household survey questionnaires, 8 in-depth interviews, 3 focus group discussions, 2 stay-over visits and a comprehensive mapping. At the close of the project, AWRAD authored an analytical report, triangulating qualitative and quantitative data gleaned by the various survey tools, and providing an evidence-based foundation to guide JICA’s future interventions.

Online Poll of Local Governance Experts on the Municipal Elections - 2016
In August 2016, AWRAD conducted an online public opinion poll among experts on local governance issues. The goal of this survey was to assess expert opinions on the municipal elections, then scheduled for October, he prospects for candidates, the priorities of voters and the impact of elections on other political topics, such as reconciliation. Participants were drawn from journalists, community activists, businesspeople, university professors, medical doctor and engineers. The study was conducted from 12-18 August and included 205 experts. A press release was authored and published on AWRAD’s website, detailing the most pertinent findings and including the sample distribution and full results.

An Analytical Study of Women and Local Government - 2016
AWRAD was recently contracted to perform an analysis of the relationship between Palestinian women and local government by the PWWSD. Key issues focused on the role of women in politics, the performance of female elected officials, the relationship of women with government actors, the role of women’s movements and obstacles to greater empowerment. AWRAD designed a mixed-methods approach across the West Bank and Gaza, utilizing 14 in-depth interviews, 3 focus group discussions and 784 survey questionnaires. Data collection tools targeted prominent NGOs, CBOs and women’s organizations, government ministries, international actors (UNWOMEN), the MoLG and citizens. At the close of the project, AWRAD authored analytical report detailing the role of governmental bodies, women’s role as socio-political leaders, attitudes and behaviors of community members, the passage and application of laws and policies and recommendations to address all major findings.

Advancing Palestinian Women Entrepreneurs: Women Entrepreneurs’ Financial Inclusion in Northern Palestine Consultancy. Cherie Blair Foundation for Women - 2015
This assignment was a study designed to identify and highlight the specific barriers women entrepreneurs in Northern Palestine face in terms of accessing financial services, as well as how the 'Advancing Women Entrepreneurs’ Project could support financial institutions and create an enabling environment for women. AWRAD prepared a mixed-methods approach, including a quantitative survey of 146 women entrepreneurs who had received loans, as well as conducting 11 interviews with individuals from the financial sector and 3 focus groups, including 2 with women entrepreneurs. Together, the data collection tools measured the distinct legal, social, political and economic barriers that impede entrepreneurial work by women. A final report was authored, which detailed the most pertinent findings and offered recommendations to improve the Project.

Formative Assessment for Utilizing Innovative Media to End Violence against Women and Girls through Community Education and Outreach - 2016
In partnership with Ma’an Network and the What Works Consortium, AWRAD undertook a formative research project to assess violence against women and girls (VAWG) in Palestine and the role of the media in preventing such acts. The research was designed to support a larger intervention aiming to increase exposure of Palestinian audiences to relevant an realistic examples of the impact of VAWG, change social norms so that such behavior is less tolerated and reduce the number of women and girls exposed to violence. To accomplish this goal, AWRAD designed a research approach utilizing six focus group discussions and 20 in-depth interviews with males and females with experience of VAWG and experts in the field of social work and justice. The data collection focused on the context of VAWG in Palestine, experience and dynamics leading to different forms of VAWG, existing services and support mechanisms for survivors and the role of the media in reinforcing or dismantling a culture of VAWG. At the close of the assignment, AWRAD authored a final analytical report, which assessed the context of VAWG in Palestine, the perceptions, understanding and experiences of Palestinians, including those exposed to VAWG, and recommendations to improve media programming capable of eroding a culture that tolerates such acts. 

Impact Assessment of Nisaa FM Programs - 2016
AWRAD partnered with Nisaa FM to carry out a research assignment, assessing the popularity, impact of programming and sociopolitical perceptions of listeners. The project was completed through a mixed-methods approach, including a survey of 665 adult Palestinians across the West Bank and Gaza and four focus group discussions. Topics focused on awareness and listenership patterns, impact of programming on women, readership of the website and means of attracting new followers. The project concluded with the authoring of an analytical report, responsible for presenting the most pertinent findings and relevant recommendations based on the input of current and potential listeners.

“Nationwide Surveys of the Egyptian and Tunisian Adult Populations.” - 2014-On-going
AWRAD is currently engaged in a public opinion polling project across Egypt and Tunisia intended to explore and measure the social distribution and political significance of democratic attitudes and intolerance in the region and identify the main individual-level and contextual-level factors underlying the recent Arab revolutions and their aftermath. The poll targets 1,570 individuals in each country and is representative of all demographic factors. Questions measure socioeconomic demographics, participation in events surrounding the revolutions, attitudes towards different types of political rule and practices and change over time in personal security. Once the data has been collected and analyzed, analytical reports will be published in scholarly journals.

“Regional Focus Groups: Morocco.” - 2015-Ongoing
AWRAD was recently contracted to conduct 24 focus groups in Morocco focusing on citizen perceptions and priorities related to political, economic and everyday issues. AWRAD will be responsible for developing all survey guidelines and training facilitators and transcribers for the focus groups. The groups themselves will be conducted in a mixture of urban and rural locales across three districts and target a variety of different ages. At the close of the project, AWRAD will submit transcriptions of each focus group, along with a complete dataset of all results. Most importantly, AWRAD will submit a final report documenting the most significant findings for IRI’s evaluation and incorporation into future work.

“Customer Perception Gender Surveys and Gender Strategy Development.” - 2012-2013
In partnership with the Palestinian Ministry of Transport (MoT) and Ministry of Interior (MoI) AWRAD completed the field work for a gender survey among the citizen customers of both ministries to analyze and understand gender dynamics and differences between the sexes in relation to access to and perception of key government services. The results of the surveys will be translated into strategies to be endorsed by both ministries.  AWRAD developed the gender strategy for the MoT through a highly participatory and consultative on-the-job training approach with the Ministry, developing a first comprehensive gender strategy for the Ministry using scientific data results and tools.

“Comprehensive Analysis for the United Nations Development Assistance Framework for the Occupied Palestinian Territory.” - 2012
For this assignment, AWRAD completed a Common Country Analysis (CCA) in support of the UNDAF. AWRAD identified priority development themes, challenges and gaps within the oPt, as well as highlighting the comparative advantage of the UN Country Team (UNCT) in addressing significant issues. In pursuit of these goals, AWRAD’s researchers conducted dozens of in-depth interviews with PA and UN officials, civil society representatives and the private sector to determine outstanding development priorities and the potential role of partners in addressing existing gaps.

“SAWT Roundtables and Advocacy Activities.” - 2011-2013
The SAWT program is dedicated to commissioning research and conducting public opinion polling and policy research to support democratic and developmental discourse among Palestinians. SAWT is an Arabic word (noun) that has two powerful and relevant meanings: “Voice” and “Vote.” In pursuit of these goals, AWRAD conducts public opinion polling and policy research to support democratic and developmental discourse among Palestinians. SAWT' the program' will be the voice of the Palestinian public in policy-making forums through  conducting  scientific national and district public opinion polling; organizing focus groups on issues of relevance to Palestinians; publish brief issue analysis papers and policy reports on pressing issues; organize roundtable meetings with decision makers; utilize the media to raise public awareness about needs of Palestinians. The two major topics SAWT has addressed are honor killings and political freedoms. Through  conducting  several public opinion polls, convening of roundtables and discussion groups and a concerted advocacy campaign utilizing the media and prominent Palestinian figures and institutions, SAWT’s efforts have contributed to the broader civil society advocacy and mobilization efforts around this issue. The clause of Palestinian law that provides exemption for murders committed in the name of honor has been abolished.

“External Evaluation of the Project: Support to Palestinian Democrats.” - 2011
The evaluation draws lessons and implications on the broader socio-political changes in the region and how they influence best practices in the field of development and democracy promotion. The evaluation adopted a participatory interactive approach using both qualitative and quantitative data gathering tools. The following issues were emphasized: organizational capacity building level and service delivery. The research process was conducted through survey questionnaires, distributed among direct and indirect beneficiaries of the implemented activities and focus groups targeting relevant activists, officials and other individuals. A final report was authored  explaining the major findings.

“Compass: AWRAD’s Eye on Palestine; Data Trends.” - 2015-On-going
Compass is an initiative recently launched by AWRAD to provide tracking and analysis of survey data, trends and current events in Palestine and abroad. Compass is an effort to combine the data collected from AWRAD Polls with the analysis, perspective and academic background of AWRAD’s office experts and analysts. In effect, Compass focuses on the stories in the data that are not revealed on the surface, focusing on the deeper meaning of certain results, the circumstances that may have induced them and what these perceptions or responses could mean for future developments or initiatives. Examples of Compass topics include the peace process, empowerment of women and youth, prospects for Palestinian development and foreign relations.

“Palestinian Political Development and Democracy Promotion (Regular Surveys and Focus Groups)” - 2007-On-going
IRI and AWRAD are implementing a wide-scale project, funded by USAID through the Middle East Partnership Initiative (MEPI), in the West Bank and Gaza. The project relies primarily on quantitative and qualitative data gained through opinion polling and focus groups. It is designed to support the goal of obtaining more detailed voting data on partisan attitudes and provocative issues necessary for political professionals to understand the issues on “the street.”  At the time of writing, 120,000 Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza have been polled throughout the project, and 400 focus groups and 600 in-depth interviews have been conducted. This project involves training and awareness raising activities for hundreds of leaders of various political groups, youth organization and civil society institutions.

“Arab Perceptions of Women Leaders in Media, Civil and Political Avenues.” - 2014-On-going
For this assignment, AWRAD distributed 6,000 questionnaires across three countries (Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Yemen). The aim of this project, funded by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), was to provide an improved understanding of public perceptions towards women. The questionnaire contained both country-specific questions asking about women and country-specific media outlets, country-specific civil society organizations, and country-specific political parties and institutions. The questionnaire also asked a large set of unified questions to develop a regional understanding of public perceptions of women leaders and women leadership activity.

“Palestinian Media Monitoring of Gender Equality.” - 2014
AWRAD conducted a specialized media monitoring study for Radio Nisaa FM and the German “Deutsche Welle Akademie”  Foundation, on gender. The study aimed to shed light on the reality of the Palestinian media with regard to gender issues from two perspectives; one about the perception and stereotypical portrayal of Palestinian women in the media, and another on the status of Palestinian female journalists (working conditions, job security and many other issues.)

“Radio Nisaa FM: Three Years After; Results of a Survey in the West Bank and Gaza.” - 2013
The survey aimed to understand the use of radio as a media outlet, study the landscape of radio stations among Palestinians, assess the status of Nisaa FM (96 Nisaa FM), investigate the socio-economic profile of listeners, assess the needs and priorities of listeners concerning issues relevant to women and gender equality, and provide recommendations to improve the standing of Nisaa FM. AWRAD authored a report detailing the findings of a survey carried out in all West Bank and Gaza regions which constitutes a follow-up survey to a smaller scale survey that took place during December 2010. AWRAD collected quantitative data on the perceptions and attitudes of respondents covering 635 Palestinian adults (18 years or more) in both the West Bank and Gaza, providing overall analysis and other disaggregation by region, gender, age, and education.

“Monitoring and Evaluation of CPP’s Impact on Civil Society and Local Governments, Civic Participation Program (CPP).” - 2011- 2014
AWRAD implemented a series of evaluations to gauge the $20 million USAID-funded CPP’s on-going and cumulative impact on all beneficiaries. Over a three years period, AWRAD produced regular performance and impact data for learning, decision-making and reporting purposes. The assignment included the conducting of baseline and end-line surveys, thematic studies and periodic reporting. The thematic studies focused on gender and civic participation, youth and civic participation and promoting partnership and networking. Stakeholders included NGOs, CBOs, PA ministries and local government entities. A mixed method approach was adopted throughout.

“Study on the Use of Internet by Palestinian Youth in the West Bank and Gaza.” - 2010
AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll measuring use of the Internet and modern online technology among youth. The survey measured consumption patterns, use of social networking site, followership of various news sites and devices used to access the Internet, among other topics. This was accomplished through quantitative surveys and qualitative focus groups. A total of 1,200 youth were targeted for the survey drawn from a random sample of households and also Internet café patrons. Furthermore, eight focus groups were conducted with youth in the West Bank and Gaza. At the close of the project, AWRAD authored an illustrative report detailing the major results.

“Media and Palestinian Public Opinion The West Bank and Gaza Strip: Media Surveys.”
On a quarterly basis AWRAD is producing reports derived from a quantitative survey conducted to measure media use as it relates to political preference in Palestine. Over the past three years, AWRAD has conducted 10 separate surveys, comprising 52,000 questionnaires, and reported on the major trends. Each survey is designed to be complementary to allow quick and easy comparison with earlier results, in order to determine the most visible, as well as detailed trends. Each report is complete with visual aids, including tables and graphs, to assist the reader’s comprehension. Significantly, each report includes significant conclusions on the state of media and political opinions to help guide policy formulation and programming awareness. 

“Family Law Poll.” - 2013
AWRAD conducted a national public opinion poll measuring the use and perceptions of family (Sharia’) law courts in Palestine. Questions measured respondents’ perceptions of the court and the law, as well as marriage and divorce, inheritance, maintenance and legal reform. Roughly 4,000 male and female respondents were targeted across the West Bank and Gaza.

“A Study of Juvenile Justice in the occupied Palestinian territories.” - 2009-2010
This project was an endeavor to assist the Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA) in developing a comprehensive strategy to improve the juvenile justice system in Palestine. It aimed to enhance the rule of law and adherence to national and international standards of fair trial and treatment of children by providing a baseline assessment of the structures and needs of relevant authorities. This was accomplished through a series of in-depth interviews and focus groups targeting the leading voices and authorities in juvenile justice. The process was also informed by a broad literature review and field visits to rehabilitation institutions. At the close of the project, a report was authored and a dissemination workshop was organized to present findings and to provide recommendations.

Gender Coordinator and Consultation Services - 2016
AWRAD was contracted by the US Consulate General in Jerusalem to serve as an expert gender consultant. AWRAD is responsible for increasing understanding of how gender issues among Palestinians relate to Mission strategic goals, improving capacity for addressing gaps in Palestinian women’s participation in public life, strengthening the Missions Women’s Empowerment Working Group (WEWG) and helping achieving the strategic goals of providing women with a platform for leadership. To accomplish these goals, AWRAD and its researchers have authored monthly briefing memos on gender-related trends in Palestine, visiting grantee organizations and providing updates on progress, holding training programs for consulate staff and holding training of trainers (ToT) programs. The project includes engagement with Consulate employees, women’s organization across Palestine, individual women serving in leadership roles and beneficiaries of grants by the Consulate.

Technical Assistance to Improve and Develop the Social Protection System in Palestine through Partnership, Planning and Institutional Capacity Building - 2015-2016
AWRAD is currently partnered with GOPA Worldwide Consultants and the Institute of Development Studies in London (IDS) to design and assist MoSA in its service delivery to vulnerable populations. The assessment entails a thorough monitoring and evaluation of MoSA service provision, in addition to non-governmental actors on the federal and local level, with the aim of determining comparative advantages. In pursuit of this goal, AWRAD and its partners have developed a series of indicators designed to evaluate impact, scope, sustainability, and other factors related to service delivery mechanisms. An essential part of this project is detailed knowledge of the concerns and circumstances of women, youth, and the disabled as it relates to service delivery. At the end of this project, AWRAD, with its partners, will present a detailed report, derived from its mixed-methods approach, which identifies comparative advantages and provides feasible recommendations for policy and programming reform.

Design and Institutionalize an M&E System for Social Development in Saudi Arabia - 2016
AWRAD worked with the Ministry of Labor and Social Development in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to provide guidance and consulting experience in the development of indices and indicators related to social development. This consultancy was designed to inform the larger National Transformation Program recently launched. In the course of the project, AWRAD established indicators in the education, health, human development and poverty alleviation sectors. These were designed to benchmark and track efforts related to social equality, empowerment of marginalized groups, such as women and children, and improve quality of life. Currently, the indicators are being employed and tested within the Kingdom.

“Gender Audit for GPC and Gender Trainings for Ministry of Interior (MoI), Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MoPWH) and the Ministry of Telecommunication and Information Technology (MTIT).” - 2013-2014
 AWRAD was contracted by DAI/EGP to conduct a gender audit to promote organizational learning at the General Personnel Council (GPC) on how to effectively mainstream gender in its work. Simultaneously, AWRAD also worked with the GPC to plan and develop their Gender Strategy, a document on how to practically incorporate gender into its policies, programs, budget and structure.  This was accomplished through on-the job training.  AWRAD developed and conducted a gender sensitization training workshop for senior staff at the MoPWH to help guide their two-year plan of action, and two-day training for staff of the MTIT to raise awareness for the development of the Ministry’s first Gender Unit.  Working with the EGP team, AWRAD provided technical input and recommendations for the design of a Model Gender Unit, which could be introduced to partner institutions.

“Women’s Participation in the Social, Economic and Political Context in the Arab World.” (Covering Tunisia, Libya, and Yemen ) - 2013-2014
For this assignment AWRAD distributed 6,000 questionnaires and conducted eight focus groups across three countries in the Arab World: Libya, Tunisia and Yemen. The aim of this project, funded by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), was to address prevailing social and political norms related to women’s involvement in a wide range of sectors. After completing fieldwork in all three Arab states, AWRAD’s office team developed three PowerPoint presentations and a 100-page report for AWLI. The report highlighted the critical findings on women’s involvement in the economic and political sectors, as well as social perceptions, attitudes and restrictions related to their involvement. Particularly significant to AWRAD’s proposal, the final analytical report and PowerPoint presentations were designed to help influence policy on women’s inclusion throughout the Arab World by providing data on priorities and programming needs.

“Youth: Agents of Social Change.” - 2013-2014
This was a broad project aiming to empower youth across Palestine and connect them with their local communities. Youth from all 16 governorates in the West Bank and Gaza were recruited to participate in training programs offering instruction in survey research and polling techniques, as well as participate in activities to brainstorm for engagement initiatives. At the conclusion of the training, the youth served as field researchers in two public opinion polls in the West Bank and Gaza. They also helped organize a variety of activities for members of their community to brighten their lives and strengthen the social fabric. These activities included organizing Iftar dinners, visiting children in hospitals, organizing activities for the elderly and bringing dates and other sweets to Palestinians stuck at checkpoints.

“Party Empowerment Initiative Morocco: Results of a Survey and Focus Groups.” - 2008
AWRAD was contracted to assist in the provision of data and analysis   for the benefit of Moroccan political parties. Prior to this assignment, a needs assessment had concluded that these parties were underprepared in outreach and planning strategies that would be better informed by the collection of qualitative and quantitative data. The project adopted a three-phase approach. The first phase was immediate exploration of the needs of the parties, accomplished through meetings with leading figures. The second phase included meetings, workshops, focus groups and report writing. The third phase was defined by the distribution of surveys among party members to determine their needs, priorities and evaluations of party-related issues.  